"2. If there is a subject called Science and Technology Studies (STS). What is science, and what is techcnology? "Answers:- Science is the study of the natural word via research and experiment. While technology is the application of science in practice."- Science is the systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural worlds through observation and experimentation, whereas technology is the practical application of scientific knowledge. ""- Science is the methodical study of the natural world using scientific methods, such as collecting data. And technology is the application of science to the creation of gadgets that can solve issues and perform various tasks. Science is actually applied in technology."- Science is the deliberate pursuit of new information through experimentation and observation. The process of using scientific knowledge in practical applications for diverse reasons is known as technology. "- Science is a means of understanding about the world and using information to achieve goals. Technology, on the other hand, is the branch of knowledge that deals with engineering or applied sciences.""- Technology and science are often successfully used interchangeably. But if the aim of technology is to produce goods that address issues and enhance human lives, the aim of science is the quest of knowledge for its own sake. ""- Scientific knowledge allows us to make new observations about the world. And technology provides students with fast access to knowledge, accelerated learning, and enjoyable opportunities to put what they've learned into practice.""- Science is any type of information obtained through various methods. While technology is apparatus and equipment that applies scientific knowledge in a specific area for practical objectives, such as improving human lives.""- Science is a method for acquiring knowledge. Technology is described as ""purposeful intervention by design,"" while technical practice is defined as ""the activity by which technological outcomes are created and have an impact on the world."" "- Science can be conceived of as both a body of knowledge and a collection of resources. Technology gives students immediate access to a great amount of information and resources.- Technology is the use of scientific knowledge to achieve practical ends. And Science is the study of the natural world through factual research - Technology is the result of science and engineering. And science is the sum of human people' systematic activities to manage nature for their own profit. - Science is a method of objective observation that explains the fundamental laws of nature. Technology is the result of putting scientific knowledge into practice. "- Science is a body of knowledge about the physical, chemical, and biological universes and the events that occur within them. Whereas technology combines ideas and practice to create something useful""- Science is typically driven by a fascination with natural events (observation) for the sake of knowing. Technology, on the other hand, is always interested in using and creating things for human growth."