Their spidey senses are tingling! Spider-Man has become one of the most coveted superhero roles in film and television with actors such as Tobey Maguire, Andrew Garfield and Tom Holland stepping into Peter Parker’s shoes.

Maguire was the first to introduce the character on the big screen in Spider-Man (2002), Spider-Man 2 (2004) and Spider-Man 3 (2007). Garfield reprised the role in the films The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) and The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (2014). The Cider House Rules star told Garfield in 2012 that he was honored to pass the baton to the U.K. native.

“When I heard it was you, I was literally like, f–king perfect,'” Maguire said in an interview with VMAN magazine in 2012. “I just want it to be great, and I thought, ‘What a great actor Andrew is, I’m glad that’s what’s happening here.'”

Garfield added that he was going to give the acclaimed Marvel character the respect it deserves.

“I just feel such a great responsibility to the story and to the fans, because I know in my heart how much this character means to people, because it means that much to me,” he explained. “For the sake of all the people who care about it as much as I do — I want to bring the character to life and make sure they’re as satisfied as they can possibly be.”

Holland, for his part, was introduced into the Marvel Cinematic Universe in the 2016 film Captain America: Civil War. He went on to portray the character in Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), Avengers: Endgame (2019) and Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019).

Marvel fans were concerned in 2019 when it looked like Spider-Man might be leaving the MCU after a dispute between Disney and Sony, which owns the cinematic rights to Spider-Man. Holland told Entertainment Weekly at the time that he was sad to say goodbye to the character.

“Basically, we’ve made five great movies,” he said. “It’s been five amazing years. I’ve had the time of my life. Who knows what the future holds? But all I know is that I’m going to continue playing Spider-Man and having the time of my life. It’s going to be so fun, however we choose to do it. The future for Spider-Man will be different, but it will be equally as awesome and amazing, and we’ll find new ways to make it even cooler.”

However, Disney and Sony were able to reach an agreement and Holland’s third Spider-Man film was green-lit for production. Spider-Man: No Way Home hit theaters in December 2021, uniting Maguire, Garfield and Holland’s Spider-Men for the first time.

Sign up for Us Weekly's free, daily newsletter and never miss breaking news or exclusive stories about your favorite celebrities, TV shows and more!

Scroll down to see a list of actors who’ve portrayed Spider-Man over the years.

Tobey Maguire spiderman
Credit: Marvel/Sony Pictures/Kobal/Shutterstock

Tobey Maguire
The actor portrayed the title role in Spider-Man (2002), Spider-Man 2 (2004) and Spider-Man 3 (2007) as well as Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021).

Neil Patrick Harris spiderman
Credit: Scott Kirkland/Picturegroup/Shutterstock

Neil Patrick Harris
The How I Met Your Mother alum voiced Peter Parker in MTV's Spider-Man: The New Animated Series in 2003 and in the 2010 video game Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions.

drake bell spiderman
Credit: Matt Baron/Shutterstock

Drake Bell
The former Nickelodeon star was cast as the voice of Peter Parker in the 2012 animated series Ultimate Spider-Man. Bell reprised the role in The Avengers: Earth's Mightiest Heroes in 2012, the Avengers Assemble TV series in 2013 and Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H. in 2013. 

Andrew Garfield spiderman
Credit: Columbia/Kobal/Shutterstock

Andrew Garfield
The U.K. native took on the role of Peter Parker/Spider-Man in the films The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) and The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (2014). He returned in Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021).

Donald Glover Miles Morales Spiderman
Credit: Disney XD; Inset: Rob Latour/Shutterstock

Donald Glover
The Atlanta star portrayed Miles Morales — who took over Spider-Man's duties after the death of Peter Parker in his world — in the animated series Ultimate Spider-Man in 2015. 

Shameik Moore spiderman
Credit: Sony Pictures Animation; Inset: CraSH/imageSPACE/Shutterstock

Shameik Moore
The Dope actor brought Miles Morales to life in the 2018 animated film Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse and the 2023 sequel, Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse.

Chris Pine spider man
Credit: YouTube; Inset: Broadimage/Shutterstock

Chris Pine
The Wonder Woman star had a brief cameo as one of the many incarnations of Spider-Man in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse.

Jake Johnson spiderman
Credit: Eric Charbonneau/Shutterstock

Jake Johnson
The New Girl alum portrayed Peter B. Parker in Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse in 2018 as well as Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse in 2023.